# CUGL App Creator
---
This directory is a copy of the Cornell University Game Library (CUGL) with installation scripts specifically to create runnable applications. The applications created will be linked to a static copy of CUGL, ensuring that the application uses the correct version of CUGL at all times.

This directory is itself a Python script, whose purpose is to create the appropriate IDE project for the application. While CMake is still supported in this copy of SDL2, mobile applications such as iOS and Anroid need further customization not supported by CMake. In addition, the XCode and Visual Studio projects generated by this script are significantly cleaner and easier to debug than those generated by CMake.

## Project Setup

To use that app creator, you should first have an app directory. This directory should 
contain a YAML configuration file. This file is used to specify the location of the following 

- Location of all source code files
- Location of any additional include files
- The game assets (textures, sounds, etc)
- The application icon

Except for the source code files (which must include a `main`), all of these are 
optional. The icon should be specified as a 1024x1024 PNG file.

See the `demos` directory for example projects.

## Setup Script

The python setup script assumes that the following packages are installed:

- [PyYAML](https://pyyaml.org)
- [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [shortuuid](https://pypi.org/project/shortuuid/)

The first two are for reading the configuration file and generating the icon assets, espectively. The script will fail if they are not present. The last package is for UUID generation for XCode projects. Without it, generated XCode projects will have weaker uniqueness guarantees on their UUIDs.

To create an CUGL application, run this folder as a python program as follows

    python cugl <project>

where `project` is a directory containing `config.yml`. This is a YAML configuration file describing all of the application properties. See the provided demos for an explanation of the various settings. 

Most build options are specified in the config file. However, the script does support some command line arguments as well. They are as follows.

- `-b, --build `   The build directory
- `-c, --config`   The configuration file
- `-t, --target`   The active build target

The latter option can be used to specify a single build target. It can be one of `android`, `apple`, `macos`, `ios`, `windows` or `cmake`. These are currently the only tested build options.

## External Library Support

This version of the application creator is built for CUGL release 2.3.  CUGL is built on top of the following third-party libraries

- Box2d, version 2.4.1
- Clipper, verstion 6.4.1
- Poly2Tri, downloaded 12/23/22 
- SDL2, version 2.26.0
- SDL2-Image, version 2.6.2
- SDL2-TTF, version 2.20.1
- SDL2-Codec, version 2.0.0
